Description of code files found in this repository:

Cleaning_Kernel_Comp_Data.Rmd
  An R markdown file going through each of the steps from reading in a csv file to cleaning it of outliers 
  (as of 1/8/2020, this is set to 3 standard deviations). It will also export the final cleaned version as a csv.

Data_Partioner.R
  R script that utilizes the caret program in R to create a training and test dataset of a given size.  Change p to an 
  appropriate partition rate.  It will allow you to read in a csv file and will export both the training and test set as csv 
  files to read into other algorithms.  It is recommended to clean the data set of outliers and duplicates before using this.
  
Duplicate_Remover.R
  R script that will look through a dataset with a SampleID column and check to see if any of the names match the one before
  it.  The dataset will need to be sorted before feeding into this program (as of 1/8/2020).  It will remove duplicate lines
  that were scanned after their counterparts.  Note: it has not been attempted on a file that doesn't have a column for 
  analysis.time, and it will not work if the names are not exactly the same (case sensitive, space sensitive, etc).
  
Moisture_Uptake_ML.Rmd
  R markdown file that goes over some model selection based on traits and their interactions.  It also has some caret based 
  machine learning models, but these did not work properly, and after this is when I started working with Matlab for 
  regression tasks.
  
NIR_spectra_pls.Rmd
  R markdown file that walks through the basics of using PLS to create a prediction model for moisture uptake from NIR 
  spectra readings.  This file has been condensed to a R script that one can more easily cmnd+enter through.
  
Spectra_Moisture_Predictor.R
  R script that is described above.  It will read in both a training csv file and a file to be predicted upon.  It goes 
  through removing outliers and duplicates from the prediction set, and choosing the number of components.  At the end it 
  will export a csv file with the original spectra readings as well as the moisture predictions. It also has the option to 
  export a file of 40 evenly-spaced-throughout-the-moisture-prediction-range samples that we plan to cook for validation.
  
Trait_Simulator.Rmd
  R markdown file creating a csv file of 3.2million individuals that were simulated based on WiDiv trait data.  As of 
  1/8/2020 this was not used since we moved to more spectra oriented data, though we may recycle this file to simulate 
  spectra data.
  
Kernel_comp_subsamp.Rmd
  R markdown that performs the sample function as the Data_Partitioner.R file.

moisture_pred_metric_analysis.Rmd
  R markdown file that contains a function similar to the Spectra_Moisture_Predictor.R that is highly customizable, and 
  instead of returning files with predictions, it will take a dataset, partition it, clean it, learn from itself, and then
  analyze its job both through RMSE and R^2, which need to be specified.  At the end of the file there are parallel for 
  loops that were used to analyze the best number of components to use.
  
mup_trait_heatmap.Rmd
  R markdown file that was used to create a heatmap for the different traits and moisture uptake to look for patterns.  This
  will most likely be used in the paper.
 
